                                                 ChangeMan:  Level One

INTRODUCTION:
    This project is about building an INTERACTIVE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT (ILE) for very young children (some under 3?).  

    Level 1 of this ILE will be about teaching a basic Noun Vocabulary (of perhaps 100 Symbols).***   

        See additional very young children considerations below.  

I shall start with a (hasa) Schematic in Outline form of the game objects I think I recognize:



ILE_SESSION_BEGIN STATE

       All BUILDINGS are  ACTIVE = Ready to be entered.

       PLAYER positioned to Beginning of the BOARD PATH.


BOARD - see this image: *
	- PATH

                STEPS

			Two lines to common to ajoining STEPS, two Curves allowing the Paths to wind between BUILDINGS (A typical 
                        Board Game)


	- BUILDING x >=4, <10? (on board)

		-ROOM x >= 1, <4?  (in building)

			- Consider a class of this type as the 'central organizing unit' of the ILE (see 'ADVANCED' Note)

			-  [ADVANCED?] Size/Transparency of PLAYER reflected by HEALTH Score.  (Perhaps 'super powers' to see more entertaining 
                           morphs that approach 'cartoon like' animations)  Ideas: Show metals on chest?  , do "Happy Dance" when winning Awards.


			
                		SYMBOL_OBJECTS x >=5, <10?  (in Room)

					Display "Statue" or Image of an Object
					Somewhere ON (or nearest) to Object display corresponding SYMBOL 


					Logic of Symbol Collection (CHOICE_SET? ) 
						Generally related Objects - e.g.  Large Mammals, pieces of furniture found in a typical house    

		                        	Perhaps one SYMBOL_OBJECT purposely unrelated to all the other SYMBOL_OBJECTS in the room for eventual
                                                extra points, to add interest, and insight....  also to allow repeating of something not accomplished
                                                by the player earlier in the ILE session.



PLAYER

	- Player can move Forward/backwards along path -AND- can enter (Active) Buildings to reveal ROOMS containing SYMBOL_OBJECTS

	- Player "Morphs" * from one SYMBOLIC_OBJECT (Instance) to the Next Stopping "Randomly" on one CHOICE_OBJECT Instance** (like one band on the
          slot machine cylinder)

        - At same time the CHOICE_OBJECTS (all) "morph" from Things to a "Cartoche" (rounded Rectangle) enclosing the SYMBOL

	STATE as player first Enabled  to make a SELECTION:    

		The Player is an Image / Statue (Instance) of some OBJECT  

		The Room consists of Cartouche Shapes enclosing SYMBOLS

		>> One (and only 1) SYMBOL_OBJECT will MATCH the PLAYER 

		To gain Maximum Strength the PLAYER must SELECT the Correct SYMBOL_OBJECT. 


		IF THE CHOICE IS CORRECT....

		     The Player is repositioned back to where he entered the room(?)

		     The (Correctly Choosen) OBJECT is made .50 transparent or otherwise "Marked" or Removed from the room

                     The Player Once again goes into Morphing Mode and settles out to one of the REMAINING SYMBOLS   

		     AUDIO: Music reflecting the "happy / successful / building" situation

                     VISUAL:  "Happy Dance"


		IF THE CHOICE IS INCORRECT... 

	             The player looses "Health"(points)

		     The SYMBO_OBJECT that was falsely selected Morps back slowly to the (original) OBJECT (memory AID)  

				(More wrong choices -> 'Everything' Slower)

		     AUDIO:  Music reflecting the "sad / dangerous / not fun" situation

                     VISUAL:  PLAYER (Bows, and mumbles something...) / Does "Unhappy Dance"


	WHEN ALL SYMBOL_OBJECTS have been correctly selected:

                 The BUILDING is Greyed, X'd out, or otherwise Designated as "Done"  


        	 The PLAYER is repositioned to the path "STEP" just before the Door of the last visited BUILDING.




ILE_SESSION_END STATE 

       When all buldings have been made INACTIVE

       Proceed to a Freshly Configured BOARD.

       PLAYER retains "Health" / Awards from previous Level - However, if a player is below say 50pct he should be 'regenerated' subtly by some
       safe amount - the PLAYERS never "Die".  


       Note to End-State,  all SYMBOL_OBJECTS incorrectly selected will eventally be stored with appropriate information at the server.  This SYMBOL_OBJECT 
       can then re-appear in a Later ILE SESSION as a "Random" Symbol in an otherwise logically related set of SYMBOL_OBJECTS.  If a sufficient number of
       incorrectly chosen SYMBOL_OBJECTS exist peraps a "Special" BUILDING can appear on the Board.   
      

       



	 
    I expect that developing on and for a desktop will be the easiest / most effective approach, however, please keep in mind
    the eventually the Environment should be able to be Run as a Client in Modern Browsers.  In no way do I wish to see the game
    quality comprimised to fit low-end or older machines or computers without 'reasonable' memory.  

    The Environment should not be a test of reflexes, or require agility or speed, it is much more about making simple logical choices, 
    associating and eventually recognizing abstract symbols to represent concrete instances.  Level 1 will concentrate on everyday things
    likely in a child's environment such as Dog, Cat, Chair, Bed...  

    [ADVANCED_NOTE #1]
    Brief note to 'Game' Designer:  I think the Morphing is the Essential Mechanism of the Entertainment for the child. 
    The Morphs from SYMBOL to OBJECT INSTANCE is a key to making good, interesting, thoughtful, playful, and long lasting Memory ASSOCIATIONS.  
    The "logic" of the shape of the individual Symbol should be made obvious in "Cartoon like" free art form, and will be a necessarily 
    a long way from a mechanical end-to-end Morph.  Perhaps there should be a short term and a long term version unique versions as replaying
    the Long Term would be time consuming and boring once the association has been made.  (Perhaps in the more advanced iterations of the 'game'
    the story can involve some 'super power' hat lets the Player see the essential nature of a symbol only once or some such?)
         EXAMPLE:  See the Dog Image.  I think it is beautifully clear the "Iconic" feature of the symbol is the Shape and position of the tail.

    [ADVANCED_NOTE #2]
    Of all the Organizing Game Objects I believe that a KEY Information Object is likely to become:  Room
    And will suggest that (attempt) be made to put all the elements that make one Room different from the next into this Object from the beginning.
    (This would seem to be a good design for future Client/Server considerations. If there are 20 Rooms on a Board then the Rooms can be loaded
    either on demand, or asycnc while other things are happening.) For example references to all the Symbols, location for the symbols into the room, 
    references to all the Morphs, and so forth.  The BOARD does not change, the ROOMS must be different to provide Interest, and Entertainment.

     
    [ADVANCED_NOTE #3]
    Building is really just representing a collection.  For example a "Zoo" Image would seem to be more Educational and fit better than just another
    rectangular Building.  However, as a starting point perhaps plain buildings will distract less from the central purpose of the ILE. 
	  


    [THIS IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND, AND COULD POINT TO DOING THESE TESTS FIRST RATHER THAN AFTER A STARTER BOARD / ROOMS ILE.
    "Morphs" from the Symbol to an actual Image, I suspect will be a Super Associative Learning Tool" and I expect will fascinate
    children.  Therefore the name of the game.  However, doing even a single Morph will probably take considerable detailed work and time.  
    We will NOT try to even demonstrate this in the first versions and can pick just One to do experiment with resource factors in a 
    stand-alone test program.   As a somewhat effective PLACEHOLDER I visualize just "flipping through" with some fade in / fade out to 
    hold the place for carefully constructed morphs.   I believe the morphs must be done manually, but perhaps there is software capable of
    generating and capturing morph stages.  

    In eventual implementation the Client (running in a browser) must communicate every situation presented and every move / choice made 
    by a child. This will be for adjusting the number of choices, the difficulty of choices, as well as such uses as preventing successfully 
    learned material to be re-presented to the child.  We can also measure progress, and compare alternative alternative presentations of materials.

    [If it is of interest to you I will be happy to allow 'the first level' of the game to be public.  However, the game facing the public 
    must not use Bliss Symbols.  I have some thoughts about the same matching technique working for the same images but the test would be to 
    select an object that does not belong to a class of objects.  So a Dinasaour in a room full of small mamals would be the Object to select.
    This would be "close enough" to the actual to share 95% of the code DNA, and be at least a good learning example?]

    Below I shall go from memory to provide some of the Logic and Experience behind this project, absolutely not needed for game design
    /implementation!  ****






	

	
NOTES;


Will (eventually) Morph smoothly (?) from one choice object to next imparting (associative) information.  However, to get started it can be
more like the SlotMachine game - where each image is just shown in End_Form (perhaps "spinning"?) for each Object/Symbol in a room [4-5-6]
eventually landing on one.  



* example board here:
https://www.123rf.com/photo_58794587_stock-vector-board-game-with-a-block-path-on-a-green-park-with-happy-people-and-cartoon-wooden-sign-boards.html
more boards here: 
https://www.123rf.com/photo_58794587_stock-vector-board-game-with-a-block-path-on-a-green-park-with-happy-people-and-cartoon-wooden-sign-boards.html

**  The SYMBOL MAY BE FOR "BIRDS" AS A CLASS like /\./\ (Abstraction of two wings), BUT THE IMAGE MIGHT WELL BE OF A Crow from another view. 

***
Level 2 seems likely to be most logically about learning basic verbs.  
Level 3 might begin to construct simple sentences to describe what is happening in a 'Scene' (Boy and Dog RUNNING).  
As Bliss is a "Constructed" language there is a logical relationship [usually] present such word pairs as 
[Hot, Cold], [Big, Small], [Hard, Simple] and so on.  This might be a unique level, or mixed into levels that mix
various word types.  I am thinking NOUNS are a essential level, the easiest to represent, and therefore logical for the
first lvel.





 


**** Misc Notes related to Bliss, natural language and so on....


*****Additional very young child considerations:

   Children of this age cannot read, so menu choices, or scores are only for a child's parent/teacher
    if that.

    Also, as a future consideration Input devices such as Keyboards will clearly not be feasible.  Touch screens seem to make the most sense, of
    the generally available input devices.  (I think of my wife's classroom touch board which is about 4' by 6' for a group version of this
    game.)

    There is no need or desire to consider Cellphones.  Perhaps large screen tablets?



  IMPORTANT: (But Longer Term... not a game design consideration)
	    Much of the Educational Value of this ILE is likely to be in the Transformation of the SYMBOLS to an Instance of the CLASS the Symbol
	    represents.  Just mechanically morphing from a symbol for a Bird to an Actual Bird (end to end) will likely not be nearly as effective 
	    as a memory as an associative memory aid as a morph that includes some special like bird flying off or cat playing with a yarn ball
	    to add some sort of interesting "signature" to the morph.  









   1. There are some 2000 unique Symbols in the Bliss System.  Symbols often consist of multiple subsymbols and modifiers.  Logically a Forest is a tree and the multiply symbol twice as a modifier.  A car is a Cart + plus the symbol for mechanized, A bird plus this same modifier is an Airplane - its all child like simple and logical. 

   2. Bliss Symbols have been put into tables for some 10 natural languages.  Therefore a simple Symbolic sentence can be output in a straight foreward way in German, Hebrew, Italian, Icelantic, and so on. New words are added every year, there are some online tools now that are useful and good for adult oriented learning (not so much for children imo).

   3. Expenditures of time and mental energy to learn any language is significant as an adult, as a child it is an exciting revealing world that will largely occupy the child's mind for years.  


PS: The Target Audience for this ILE are Schools Systems - not children, and not game designers. Entertainment value still very important, but goal is to communicate the potential effectiveness of some of these ideas to "Pedological Scientists & Influencers". Also think of position of such as Chinese or Indian parents/teachers that are raising children knowing they will 'need' to learn at least one additional language to compete in world labor market place...


4 . Spelling is a tricky (and life long) turture.  Think about what spelling is!  Its symbols that generally map to sounds that have been mapped to things and actions etc.  Many things have to function, hearing, sight, memory to begin to read and write.  Bliss Symbolics skip many of these steps, and thus have been PROVEN to be effective as a "Bridge Language" where children that have somehow not been able to communicate even with their family suddenly can start pointing to symbols to build many 100's of useful sentences!  

     


	

